testing.md, before:

# **TESTING**

The website was tested in the following **browsers**:

- Chrome √
- Firefox √
- Microsoft Edge √
- Safari √
- Internet Explorer X
- Opera √

It was also tested in the following phone **operating systems**:

- iOS √
- Android √

Finally, it was tested in the following **devices**:

- Desktop √
- iPhone 5/SE √
- Pixel 2/2XL √
- Moto 4G √
- Galaxy S5 √
- iPhone 6/7/8 (+Plus) √
- iPhone X/iPhone XS Max √
- iPad/iPad Pro √
- Surface Duo √

*Results:* 

The website had an great performance and could be used perfectly, no funcional issues were found during the testing. However, the layout was not exactly the same (or the intended design) in all systems and devices but the users could interact with ease and achieve their goals successfully.

## **Issues Solved During Development**
-----

The most important issues that were found during development that took a considered amount to time to solve are the following:

- ONE

- TWO

- THREE

- FOUR

- FIVE

## **HTML/CSS Validation Testing**
-----

### **1. HTML Validation**

The tool used for this code validation was the [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/), which was used by **Direct Input** to make sure there were no erros in the **HTML File**. The results were the following:

![w3c html validation service one error results](./assets/images/html-initial-validation.png "w3c css validation service one error results") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

**1. Issue:** Bad value "mailto: effie@gmail.com" for attribute `href` on element `a`: Illegal character in scheme data: **space is not allowed**.

- **Fixes:** All the extra spaces were removed resulting in:

```HTML
<p><a href="mailto:effie@gmail.com">effie@gmail.com</a></p>
```

The **final report** shows no errors in the index.html file as they were properly fixed:

![w3c html validation service one error results](./assets/images/html-final-validation.png "w3c css validation service one error results") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

### **2. CSS Validation**

The tool used for this code validation was the [W3C CSS Validation Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/), which was used by **Direct Input** to make sure there were no erros in the **CSS Style Sheet**. The results were the following:

![w3c css validation service no error results](./assets/images/css-validation.png "w3c css validation service no error results") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

The CSS yielded no errors, so I proceeded with further testing. However, it is worth noting that I also got these five warning results to be considered:

![w3c css validation service warning results](./assets/images/css-warnings.png "w3c css validation service warning results") 

Just in case, the testing was done again, this time by **File Upload**, and the results were exactly the same. 

## **Testing Performance**
-----

In order to test the website's performance on **desktop** and **mobile**, [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) was used in both cases.

### **1. Desktop**

The **initial results** were the following:

![google lighthouse desktop results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-p1.png "google lighthouse desktop results") 

![google lighthouse desktop results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-p2.png "google lighthouse desktop results") 

![google lighthouse desktop accessibility results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-accessibility.png "google lighthouse desktop accessibility results") 

![google lighthouse desktop best practices results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-bestpractices.png "google lighthouse desktop best practices results") 

![google lighthouse desktop runtime settings](./assets/images/runtime-settings.png "google lighthouse desktop runtime settings") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

The following actions were taken to improve the performance of the website, especially the accessibility:

**Urgent Issues:**

**1. Issue:** Remove unused JavaScript

- **Fixes:**

**2. Issue:** Properly size images / Avoid enourmous network payloads

- **Fixes:** Unfortunatly, due to the lack of time this issue could not be solved before the project deadline. However, all the images used on the website will be converted from PNG to formats like JPEG 2000 or WebP to provide better compression for faster downloads and less data consumption. The tools that will be used for this are the following: [Convertio (PNG to WebP)](https://convertio.co/png-webp/) and [TinyPNG (Image Compression)](https://tinypng.com/). **Goal:** Less than 550KB per image.

**3. Issue:** Links to cross-origin destinations are unsafe

- **Fixes:** This issue was simply fixed by adding `rel="noopener"` to all external links to prevent security vulnerabilities.

```HTML
<li>
    <img src="assets/images/ah-logo.png" alt="ArchHyve logo">
    <a href="https://archhyve.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><img src="assets/images/ah-img.png" alt="ArchHyve"></a>
</li>
```

**4. Issue:** Image elements do not have explicit widh and height

- **Fixes:** Unfortunatly, due to the lack of time this issue could not be solved before the project deadline. However, explicit `width` and `height` (size attributes) will be set on image and video elements to reduce layout shifts and improve CLS (Cumulative Layout Shift) like explained in [Optimize Cumulative Layout Shift](https://web.dev/optimize-cls/?utm_source=lighthouse&utm_medium=devtools#images-without-dimensions).

*Example:*
```HTML
<img src="community-logo.jpg" width="640" height="360" alt="the club community official logo"/>
```

**5. Issue:** Background and foreground colors do not have a sufficient contrast ratio √

- **Fixes:** This issue was simply fixed by increasing the contrast of the colors in the background and foreground.

```CSS
#new-bgfg-colors {
    background: #e7e8ef;
    color: #434343;
}
```
*Final Result:*
![background and foreground new colors](./assets/images/increased-contrast.png "background and foreground new colors") 

**6. Issue:** Ensure text ramains visible during webfont load

- **Fixes:**

**7. Issue:** Form elements do not have associated labels

- **Fixes:** This issue was simply fixed by adding the associated labels to all form elements.

```HTML
<!-- Name -->
<label for="fullname">Full Name</label>
<input type="text" name="name" id="fullname" class="form-control" placeholder="Full Name" required/>
```

```CSS
/* Invisible Form Labels */
label {
    display: none;
}
```

*Final Result:*
![background and foreground new colors](./assets/images/form-labels.png "background and foreground new colors")

**8. Issue:** Links do not have a discernible name

- **Fixes:**

### **1. Mobile**

The initial results were the following:

![google lighthouse mobile results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-p1.png "google lighthouse mobile results") 



## **Testing Accessibility**
-----



## **Testing User Stories**
-----

Commit message:

Add hidden text to social media icons for screen readers only

testing.md, after:

# **TESTING**

The website was tested in the following **browsers**:

- Chrome √
- Firefox √
- Microsoft Edge √
- Safari √
- Internet Explorer X
- Opera √

It was also tested in the following phone **operating systems**:

- iOS √
- Android √

Finally, it was tested in the following **devices**:

- Desktop √
- iPhone 5/SE √
- Pixel 2/2XL √
- Moto 4G √
- Galaxy S5 √
- iPhone 6/7/8 (+Plus) √
- iPhone X/iPhone XS Max √
- iPad/iPad Pro √
- Surface Duo √

*Results:* 

The website had an great performance and could be used perfectly, no funcional issues were found during the testing. However, the layout was not exactly the same (or the intended design) in all systems and devices but the users could interact with ease and achieve their goals successfully.

## **Issues Solved During Development**
-----

The most important issues that were found during development that took a considered amount to time to solve are the following:

- ONE

- TWO

- THREE

- FOUR

- FIVE

## **HTML/CSS Validation Testing**
-----

### **1. HTML Validation**

The tool used for this code validation was the [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/), which was used by **Direct Input** to make sure there were no erros in the **HTML File**. The results were the following:

![w3c html validation service one error results](./assets/images/html-initial-validation.png "w3c css validation service one error results") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

**1. Issue:** Bad value "mailto: effie@gmail.com" for attribute `href` on element `a`: Illegal character in scheme data: **space is not allowed**.

- **Fixes:** All the extra spaces were removed resulting in:

```HTML
<p><a href="mailto:effie@gmail.com">effie@gmail.com</a></p>
```

The **final report** shows no errors in the index.html file as they were properly fixed:

![w3c html validation service one error results](./assets/images/html-final-validation.png "w3c css validation service one error results") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

### **2. CSS Validation**

The tool used for this code validation was the [W3C CSS Validation Service](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/), which was used by **Direct Input** to make sure there were no erros in the **CSS Style Sheet**. The results were the following:

![w3c css validation service no error results](./assets/images/css-validation.png "w3c css validation service no error results") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

The CSS yielded no errors, so I proceeded with further testing. However, it is worth noting that I also got these five warning results to be considered:

![w3c css validation service warning results](./assets/images/css-warnings.png "w3c css validation service warning results") 

Just in case, the testing was done again, this time by **File Upload**, and the results were exactly the same. 

## **Testing Performance**
-----

In order to test the website's performance on **desktop** and **mobile**, [Google Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) was used in both cases.

### **1. Desktop**

The **initial results** were the following:

![google lighthouse desktop results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-p1.png "google lighthouse desktop results") 

![google lighthouse desktop results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-p2.png "google lighthouse desktop results") 

![google lighthouse desktop accessibility results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-accessibility.png "google lighthouse desktop accessibility results") 

![google lighthouse desktop best practices results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-bestpractices.png "google lighthouse desktop best practices results") 

![google lighthouse desktop runtime settings](./assets/images/runtime-settings.png "google lighthouse desktop runtime settings") 

***Date:*** Thursday, Feb 25th, 2021

The following actions were taken to improve the performance of the website, especially the accessibility:

**Urgent Issues:**

**1. Issue:** Remove unused JavaScript

- **Fixes:**

**2. Issue:** Properly size images / Avoid enourmous network payloads

- **Fixes:** Unfortunatly, due to the lack of time this issue could not be solved before the project deadline. However, all the images used on the website will be converted from PNG to formats like JPEG 2000 or WebP to provide better compression for faster downloads and less data consumption. The tools that will be used for this are the following: [Convertio (PNG to WebP)](https://convertio.co/png-webp/) and [TinyPNG (Image Compression)](https://tinypng.com/). **Goal:** Less than 550KB per image.

**3. Issue:** Links to cross-origin destinations are unsafe

- **Fixes:** This issue was simply fixed by adding `rel="noopener"` to all external links to prevent security vulnerabilities.

```HTML
<li>
    <img src="assets/images/ah-logo.png" alt="ArchHyve logo">
    <a href="https://archhyve.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><img src="assets/images/ah-img.png" alt="ArchHyve"></a>
</li>
```

**4. Issue:** Image elements do not have explicit widh and height

- **Fixes:** Unfortunatly, due to the lack of time this issue could not be solved before the project deadline. However, explicit `width` and `height` (size attributes) will be set on image and video elements to reduce layout shifts and improve CLS (Cumulative Layout Shift) like explained in [Optimize Cumulative Layout Shift](https://web.dev/optimize-cls/?utm_source=lighthouse&utm_medium=devtools#images-without-dimensions).

*Example:*
```HTML
<img src="community-logo.jpg" width="640" height="360" alt="the club community official logo"/>
```

**5. Issue:** Background and foreground colors do not have a sufficient contrast ratio √

- **Fixes:** This issue was simply fixed by increasing the contrast of the colors in the background and foreground.

```CSS
#new-bgfg-colors {
    background: #e7e8ef;
    color: #434343;
}
```
*Final Result:*
![background and foreground new colors](./assets/images/increased-contrast.png "background and foreground new colors") 

**6. Issue:** Ensure text ramains visible during webfont load

- **Fixes:**

**7. Issue:** Form elements do not have associated labels

- **Fixes:** This issue was simply fixed by adding the associated labels to all form elements.

```HTML
<!-- Name -->
<label for="fullname">Full Name</label>
<input type="text" name="name" id="fullname" class="form-control" placeholder="Full Name" required/>
```

```CSS
/* Invisible Form Labels */
label {
    display: none;
}
```

*Final Result:*
![background and foreground new colors](./assets/images/form-labels.png "background and foreground new colors")

**8. Issue:** Links do not have a discernible name

- **Fixes:**

### **1. Mobile**

The initial results were the following:

![google lighthouse mobile results](./assets/images/lighthouse-desktop-p1.png "google lighthouse mobile results") 



## **Testing Accessibility**
-----

To test the website accessibility [Wave Web Accessibility Evaluation Tool](https://wave.webaim.org/) was used. The obtained results are the following:

![wave accessibility results](./assets/images/wave-accessibility-results.png "wave accessibility results") 

![wave accessibility errors and alerts results](./assets/images/wave-accessibility-errorsalerts.png "wave accessibility errors and alerts results")

All "errors" and "alerts" were analysed in detail and the **conclusions** were the following: 

- All the **alerts** were actually made on purpose for academic reasons only as the external links used in the development of this project are not the real ones (e.g.: social media links) or they have been duplicated as the information shared on the site requires:

![wave accessibility errors results](./assets/images/wave-accessibility-redundantlinks1.png "wave accessibility errors and alerts results")

![wave accessibility errors results](./assets/images/wave-accessibility-redundantlinks2.png "wave accessibility errors and alerts results")

- All these **errors** on the site are the same, the `<a>` tag doesn't contain any text: 


In order to fix this to improve the accessibility of the website, `alt text` was added to all social media icons so that the text can be detected by screen readers only:

```HTML
<!-- Name -->
<label for="fullname">Full Name</label>
<input type="text" name="name" id="fullname" class="form-control" placeholder="Full Name" required/>
```

<a target="_blank" href="https://www.facebook.com/girldevelopit">
  <i class="fa fa-facebook"><span class="sr-only">GDI Facebook</span></i>
</a>

> Credit: [Add Text Alternate to Social Media Icons by Sylvia Pellicore](https://github.com/girldevelopit/gdi-website/issues/344)

## **Testing User Stories**
-----
